# MacrophageChemokineHeterogeneity
Code for Article "Coordinated Chemokine Expression Defines Macrophage Subsets Across Tissues"

Tissue-resident macrophages in the lung, comprising alveolar and interstitial macrophages (IMs), exhibit a high degree of diversity. In general, this heterogeneity among macrophages is attributed to different activation states, often complicated by the influx of monocytes into the pool of tissue-resident macrophages. To gain a deeper insight into the functional diversity of IMs in the lung, we conducted a comprehensive transcriptional profiling of CD206hi and CD206lo resident IMs, excluding recruited macrophages from our analysis. Our data identified seven chemokine-expressing IM subsets: IMck1 (Ccl2, Ccl7, Ccl12, and some Cxcl14), IMck2-4 (Ccl3, Ccl4, Ccl5, Cxcl1, Cxcl2, and Cxcl3), IMck5 (Ccl8), IMck6 (Ccl6 and Ccl9), IMck7 (Cxcl9 and Cxcl10), IMck8 (Cxcl13), and IMck9 (Ccl24), which were found in steady-state and acute inflammation. Beyond the lung, IMs across various tissues and species displayed similar coordinated chemokine signatures. Evidently, other macrophage types, distinct from IMs, shared some IM chemokine profiles, while also displaying unique chemokine signatures of their own. IM-depleting mice were created to study their functional role: Pf4creR26EYFP+DTR and Pf4creR26EYFPCx3cr1DTR mice. While all IMs expressed Pf4 (CXCL4), the depletion was primarily observed in CD206hi IMs. The loss of CD206hi IMs significantly reduced inflammatory cell influx in allergen and infection-driven models, leading to a notable decrease in tertiary lymphoid formation and accumulation of GL7+ germinal center B cells. Overall, our study highlights a division of labor among IMs, as evidenced by their coordinated production of chemokines to control inflammatory cell influx and organize tertiary lymphoid tissue architecture.
